lol oh I'm the beep - and I'm the
Jessica TFS and justly peer to peer tech
lead and I welcome you to the first
sleep you peer overview talk it is
actually a preview but one that should
bring a lot of clarity to all the loop
your peer contributors users and
stakeholders I welcome all kinds of
feedback my goal is to have a talk that
we would be proud to deliver at a tech
conference so let's get to it the agenda
is quite straightforward I'll start by
explaining the motivation and why do we
need to think about networking in 2018
after that I'll jump right into a liquid
appear what it is and what it is
followed by a progress report and last
but not the least I'll talk about what
it is in the horizon for the project if
you have been following a TFS for a
while you might have heard us describe
all the web the platform that we love
and learn to rely on it's pretty fragile
and that it has several design problems
most of which come from location
addressing and now the solution is to
move to a Content addressed model
however what doesn't get exclusively SEM
is that in order to give content
addressing properties to the web you
have to go deeper into the networking
stack and overcome many of the
challenges that the current Internet
infrastructure asks things like
firewalls that apply to restrictive
filters mats that bind peers from each
other I already see networks that make
the experience horribly slow networks
that are just not reliable and keep
failing
the lack of mobile addressing across
different types of networks and
protocols this is also known as roaming
the fact that there are government's
that completely that can completely shut
down the internet for entire countries
and
lots of devices with very different
connectivity properties forcing
developers to work really hard around
their limitations to get connected with
each other
and a lot of times they are just simply
not able to also really important
innovation in networks land using
Carlo takes years for a new protocol to
go down the OSI stack and to be deployed
in a large scale even Oryx with huge
amounts of funding might still take
years to decades to deploy new fantastic
ideas to the Internet's fabric in order
to build ipfs the peer-to-peer file
system we had to come up with ways to
work around these limitations some of
which required to redesign pieces from
the ground up the fun fact is that ipfs
is not the first peer-to-peer protocol
actually there are multiple projects and
some have been around for decades if you
have been on the internet piece for a
while you might remember when Skype was
originally launched it was a
peer-to-peer voice service projects like
Nutella as a Amul BitTorrent anotherís
enabled file sharing in a peer-to-peer
fashion there was a lot of ketamine
research at Kapaa which some of which
got implemented others didn't and even
though these projects existed before it
was epically hard to really leverage the
work done in the past most of these
projects had the classic software
visibility problems things like lack of
widow mutation or not at all licensing
was too restrictive for nowhere to be
found
the projects were old some of them
really old with a last update more than
a decade away and they simply didn't
work in modern OSS or modern language
runtimes gnome intended to be seen the
source was closed or the source didn't
exist anymore this is very common in
academia where the source is not seen as
something valuable and typically gets
thrown away after the paper gets
published the specification was missing
and the the implementations didn't
expose a really friendly API that was
easy to use and play with most of these
projects were tightly coupled with a
specific use making it very hard to that
and this is something that we still see
today
one example is where to see the
peer-to-peer transport of the web
platform
whoever this is so incredibly hard piece
together that more than five teams of
open-source hackers and or companies
after ID and continue trying to extract
the source code from the Chrome browser
and we package it to other runtimes
still today most of those
implementations are quite buggy they are
not well maintained and simply not
reliable another common pattern across
these past projects is that there
weren't a lot of assumptions made
probably for the sake of a product a bit
at a time but now it makes them really
hard to that so there had to be a better
way and I know what you're thinking the
famous XT CD 97 on the standard story
but no think about it what if instead of
like creating a new standard and new
projects that it is competing with the
old ones we actually created a project
that is a frame a toolkits full of
options to integrate all the previous
ones and that wants to exist in the
future
well enter a peer to peer we peer to
peer is a module module networking stack
designed for the modern problems of that
working and that is future-proof liberal
appear is that the networking psycho by
PFS but extracted out making ipfs one of
its dependent and opening the space for
many other projects to use an innovative
pilot making liquid appear first class
project meaning that it has its own
ecosystems ecosystem objectives and
priorities teams and stakeholders a
simple way to think about with your peer
is if a PFS brought content addressing
to the world where peer to peer brings
process addressing a way to find connect
and authenticate processes so that we
know we can trust the connection
end-to-end we prepare is a collection of
building blocks that expose very
well-defined documented and tested
interfaces so that they are peace
composable swappable and with that
upgradeable another way that i like to
describe it is by saying it we grab the
OSI vertical layer system and made it
horizontal by the way just to page in
everyone's mind the OSI layer system out
there being the one still taught in many
networking classes doesn't actually
represent where all the internet works
tcp/ip got deployed worldwide and so
it's model it's a better representation
either way both of them are just
conceptual and in practice they do have
shortcomings such as multiple action
that I repeated through many of the
layers duplicating work and wasting
resources information gets even missing
significant opportunities for
optimizations if you are new to this
idea I strongly recommend you going
through the RFC 1958 and IRC 34:39 on
internet architecture principles and
guidelines to improve their
understanding the summary is that what
happens today that the Internet Protocol
spread over multiple areas which made
things very tightly coupled internally
and hard to change and to innovate with
peer-to-peer changes this and just gives
you a frame in which all these protocols
can co-exist and cooperate you pick your
own liquid appear recipe and if I'll at
a time you want to change you just have
to change the recipe by the top-level
API the link to the PAPR remains the
same so your app doesn't need to change
a good example of this in practice is
our PMS runs in node.js and in the
browser here you can see each recipe the
differences are that both runtimes at
different capabilities different
transports and so they energy as we get
to use TCP and WebSockets well in the
browser we use WebSockets and I know
we're were to see to learn more about
each of these pieces and how they work
and how they pull together you can check
the very comprehensive tutorial suggest
we put the peer repo these back
explanations with code samples that you
can try on your own so this is the peer
to peer
what about progress how far have we
gotten so far we have three language of
limitations one in go one a rest and one
in JavaScript and one slowly in the
works in c-sharp by a community member
and many pieces built in multiple other
languages thanks to booty formats the
self-described about data types that are
extensively used in the peer-to-peer
the community is growing fast with over
70 contributors dedicated to peer to
peer and over a thousand people that
have participated in the project somehow
he
threads on the browser and this was kind
of the test of fire for a leap year and
in Division it also runs on mobile
browsers which
super exciting it has enabled apps like
collaborative docket leading thanks to
the p2p publish/subscribe API for
real-time communication we demoed early
peer-to-peer connecting going through
your notes to a TV movie ms running on
the browser using the liquid appear to
transport the blocks from the atrium
chain there are also new products that
do peer-to-peer live streaming using the
peer-to-peer and our friend at
Mathematica doing tons of research on
Alto ever trip it appeared the Libre
blocks faster to their giant user
network and of course any project that
is using IP FS is using a peer-to-peer
by design and in the future any project
it will use file coin will also be using
the peer peer another pair of exciting
news that deterrent project is actively
exploring the migration to we peer to
peer networking stack and at the same
time polka dot as committed to usually
peer to peer and have made significant
progress and with very exciting results
connecting browsers to that their
network musingly peer to peer and of
course let's not forget that we purify
as a gorgeous website logo something
quite rare for a networking project so
let's talk about the timeline and
disclaimer the timeline is highly
speculative it is a mix of what is
possible and what are our wildest hopes
and dreams it only serves the purpose of
giving some notion of direction so use
it with Fatima somewhere in the next
three months the priority is to support
the three language teams and help them
achieve feature priority with robust
integration and interoperability testing
that should be projected all over up to
date specification of will appear also
to improve the improbability debugging
ability and overall excitement we want
to have a a way to visualize different
Network topologies
this will also essential to foster
innovation six months in is where we see
that like well adoption will kick in
we we want to see new language of
limitations or even better will appear
appear getting package on the language
or at times so it's just there for every
single developer we also want to have a
packet switching API today all the ideas
are stream based which we're
well for the use cases appear today but
for Iowa to see in low bandwidth
connections and really long reliable
connections packet-switching can bring
significant improvements to the
experience of the users that usually
peer-to-peer and yes we also want to get
some new transports such as booted more
in the future we want to make we prepare
OS level service and a kernel module we
want to promote tons of innovation
networking go to university networking
courses researchers and labs and help
them explore it in depth and build on
top of it we also going to want to go
into radio and use all the latest and
greatest software defined radio software
to create radio modules for a lip-reader
peer the long term goal is really to
make people appear that go to peer to
peer and networking stack and convince
the world that there is no need for the
client and server model and all of its
limitations
infrastructure is more reliable when it
is built with protocols that are fully
distributed and can adapt to many
networking scenarios still lots of work
to be done but something that we can do
together thank you so much for your time
I hope this presentation was valuable
please send your feedback to David at
protocol AI thanks so much